MSNBC anchor Thomas Roberts speculated on-air Sunday that President Trump may be trying to “provoke” a terrorist attack in the United States just so he can “prove himself right” on Islamic terrorism.
Mr. Roberts posed the theory twice during separate interviews with Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed and former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean, The Daily Caller first reported. The MSNBC anchor was specifically referring to a tweet by the president responding to Saturday’s terrorist attack in London.
 
“The president doesn’t want us to be politically correct, right?” Mr. Roberts asked. “So let’s not be PC about this. Is the president trying to provoke a domestic terrorist attack with this Twitter rant, because only to prove himself right?”
Mr. Reed avoided the question, saying security issues should be handled “leader to leader” and not on Twitter.
Mr. Roberts later asked the same question to Mr. Dean: “I asked this of Mayor Reed, but it seems like the president is trying to provoke something that he can politicize more for his own gain in America. Do you feel that way?”
Mr. Dean also skirted the question, declaring Mr. Trump “totally incompetent.”
Mr. Trump’s counselor, Kellyanne Conway, rebuked Mr. Roberts on “Fox & Friends” Monday for making “defamatory” comments about the administration.
“Does he have a job today? I mean, that is really over the top,” Ms. Conway said, Mediaite reported.
“People are really losing their minds over this presidency, instead of trying to cover the things that he’s doing to help all Americans and really coming together,” she said. “Defeating terrorism and putting ISIS truly in retreat and eliminating them from the face of the earth should be a non-partisan issue in search of bipartisan support When you hear things like that and people still keep their jobs, it’s truly remarkable.”
Mr. Roberts defended himself on Twitter Sunday afternoon in response to The Daily Caller’s story.
“Based on @POTUS tweets after London attack it’s a fair question. Also considering established track record,” he wrote.
 
