Heather Samuelson was tasked with going through Hillary Clinton's emails and decided which should be made public and which deleted 
•  Samuelson was supposed to take a job at the campaign and even relocated to New York, but things got 'complicated' 
•  Her role in the ongoing email scandal is being scrutinized by Senate Judiciary Chair Chuck Grassley who wants to know if she had an appropriate security clearance
•  More news on Hillary Clinton's campaign at www.dailymail.co.uk/hillary 

Heather Samuelson was the Clinton aide who was tasked to go through the former secretary of state's emails and then, later on, was to take a job with the 2016 campaign. 
But, according to Politico, Samuelson made the move – from Washington, D.C. to New York, as Clinton's campaign is headquartered in Brooklyn –  but never started her campaign job. 
'She moved to Brooklyn to work on the campaign, but then things got really complicated,' a friend of Samuelson's told Politico, asking to not be named. 
 
Figure 1: Heather Samuelson (left) was tasked with sifting through Hillary Clinton's (right) emails and then was supposed to take a job at the campaign, but, according to Politico, things got 'complicated'
 

Figure 2: Hillary Clinton's email scandal has gotten the attention of Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley who's aimed his ire at Heather Samuelson, an aide who sorted through Clinton's emails, and Huma Abedin
 
According to Politico, Samuelson was supposed to work for the campaign and vet senior level hires. 
Samuelson did appear among the staffers that accompanied Clinton to her 11-hour testimony before the House Select Committee on Benghazi. 
'Heather Samuelson has been and is one of former Secretary Clinton's personal attorneys,' Clinton attorney David Kendall told DailyMail.com 
He wouldn't expand his comments beyond that and wouldn't say whether Samuelson was technically working for the campaign.
Before the New York City move, Samuelson had been a 2008 campaign staffer before becoming a senior adviser to Clinton at the State Department. 
She was the person assigned to screen Clinton's emails and decide which ones should be handed over to the government.
Her role in the ongoing Clinton email scandal is once again being highlighted because Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, sent her a letter last Wednesday asking about her security clearance. 
'It is not clear what level of security clearance you had at the different stages of this process, if any,' Grassley wrote, referring to the email sorting. 
The Iowa senator mentioned how the FBI took the emails out of the hands of Clinton's attorney Kendall, who had a Top Secret clearance issued through the State Department, because even that level was 'insufficient to allow him to maintain custody of the emails,' Grassley explained.
 
Figure 3: Sen. Chuck Grassley (left) has been looking into Clinton aides including Huma Abedin (right) who had a 'special government status' that allowed her to work both inside and outside of the State Department, which Grassley is calling a conflict of interes
 
Using this same line of thinking, Grassley wrote, 'it is imperative to confirm when, how, and why you, and any of your associates, received a security clearance in connection with your work on behalf of Secretary Clinton and whether it was active while you had custody of Secretary Clinton's emails.' 
Grassley said it was 'imperative' to understand Samuelson's background as she was the chief decider on which emails became public record and which were considered personal to the secretary and deleted. 
Attached to the letter, Grassley included 19 numbered questions, some with multiple parts, that he wanted answered for the judiciary committee, giving Samuelson a deadline of Dec. 1. 
So far, there's been no indication by the committee that she's replied. 
Grassley has been sniffing around Clintonland for quite some time now. 
Also in his crosshairs, since 2013, has been top Clinton aide Huma Abedin, the wife of disgraced former congressman Anthony Weiner, whose 'special government employee' status allowed her to simultaneously keep working at the State Department, while also taking a paycheck from Teneo, a corporate advisory firm linked to the Clintons. 
This arrangement also allowed Abedin to do work for the Clinton Foundation.
Grassley considered this to be a conflict of interest, while Abedin's lawyer and the Clinton camp have pushed back and said she did nothing wrong, as these arrangements are fairly typical. 
Democrats, and Clinton-aligned groups like Correct the Record, have criticized Grassley more broadly as well, suggesting that his investigations are deeply partisan and part of the Republican plan to derail the former secretary of state's White House ambitions. 
They point to a former Grassley aide, Emilia DiSanto, who now works for the State Department, suggesting that she's been leaking information to her former boss so that he can go after Clinton's people.
'You know the saying, if it walks like a duck, if it quacks like a duck, then it's a duck,' said Correct the Record head Brad Woodhouse to the Hill newspaper. 'We believe she's passing along information to Grassley to hurt Huma .. and to hurt Secretary Clinton. Would [Grassley] be interested in this issue if Hillary Clinton wasn't running for president?' 
Democratic Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid also blasted his colleague on the Senate floor over the investigations of Clinton. 
'How much taxpayer money is Sen. Grassley wasting on this anti-Hillary Clinton campaign?' Reid said. 'He should be willing to tell us about his committee resources that are being used to investigate Hillary Clinton.' 
For a time, Grassley was holding up a number of State Department nominations too, but on that he's relaxed, now just holding onto three senior positions, as he waits for more questions about the Clinton emails to be answered.  
