Since 1918, three general elections have been followed by minority governments. All were Labour administrations. None of them lasted long or achieved much.
The first, led by Ramsay MacDonald in 1924, lasted 10 months before being defeated in the Commons by a combination of Conservative and Liberal votes. The second, in 1929, lasted just over two years before breaking up because it could not agree on public spending cuts.
The third was led by Harold Wilson after he unexpectedly defeated Edward Heath in February 1974. In October, Wilson dissolved Parliament, hoping to secure a working majority. In the event, he gained a majority of just three.

 
By 1976, that majority had disappeared through by-election losses and defections, but in March 1977, Wilson’s successor, James Callaghan, negotiated a pact with the Liberals, similar perhaps to the agreement which Theresa May has secured with the DUP
	
This sustained him until October 1978, after which Callaghan continued as Prime Minister of a minority government until the general election of 1979 when he was soundly defeated by Margaret Thatcher.
In 1992, Margaret Thatcher’s successor, John Major, unexpectedly won with a majority of 21. But, by 1996, that majority had been lost through by-election defeats. Major nevertheless continued, with the support of the Ulster Unionists, until Tony Blair’s 1997 election landslide.
Theresa May called a general election with two aims in mind. The first was to secure a mandate for a different form of Conservativism from that which secured David Cameron his majority in 2015, a gentler private enterprise system which would do more for the struggling families of Middle England.
The main reason, however, was to resolve the conflict that the 2016 EU referendum had created between Parliament and the people. For, while the people had voted Leave, around 75 per cent of MPs were for Remain.
She hoped that the new Parliament would support a genuine Brexit, by which Britain left the EU’s internal market and customs union so freeing herself from EU law and from the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice.
That hope too has been dashed. The new Parliament is probably even more skewed towards Remain than the Parliament of 2015. Indeed, some have interpreted the swing to Labour, especially in London, as the revenge of the Remainers.
Both Houses will probably become more emboldened to resist Mrs May’s pure Brexit in favour, perhaps, of an arrangement such as that of Norway’s by which Britain mimics EU membership, remaining a member of the internal market and so accepting EU law but playing no part in making it.
That would make Britain subject to regulation without representation. She would be relying on the other EU members to defend her interests, a form of virtual representation similar to that which drove the American colonies to rebel against Britain in the 18th century.
The election, therefore, puts a question mark over Brexit. It is indeed a paradox that Mrs May, a Remainer in 2016, has now been impaled upon a form of Brexit that the country apparently does not support. It is equally paradoxical that Jeremy Corbyn, whose Bennite friends were strongly eurosceptic, has become the last hope of the Remainers.
The election also reopens the Irish Question. The Good Friday peace agreement of 1998 rested on a delicate balance between the two communities in the province, the Unionist and the Nationalist.
The EU referendum undermined that balance. Northern Ireland rejected the advice of the leading Unionist party, the DUP, by voting Remain. Since the Republic remains firmly committed to the EU, there is now a clear majority in the island of Ireland for Remain.
The British government is a guarantor of the Good Friday agreement. But it will now be beholden to one of the communities, the Unionist, at the expense of the other, the Nationalist. That will make it more difficult to secure conciliation and partnership government in Northern Ireland.
General elections are intended to settle policy issues. The outcome of the 2017 election has made it more difficult than ever to resolve two fundamental issues – the European Question and the Northern Ireland Question – which have been at the heart of British politics for many years.

