President Trump had another busy day on Thursday: He received his daily intelligence briefing, signed two executive orders, posed for photographs in the Oval Office and was interviewed at the White House by NBC News. He also found time to reignite his decade-long feud with the comedian Rosie O’Donnell.
Mr. Trump shared a message on Twitter by Ms. O’Donnell from December in what appears to be his latest attempt to prove that even his critics truly support his decision to fire the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey. The president has highlighted past criticism by Democrats about Mr. Comey and noted on Thursday afternoon that even his longtime foe once wanted the F.B.I. director gone.
Ms. O’Donnell wrote on Dec. 20, “FIRE COMEY.” Mr. Trump shared her tweet and added, “We finally agree on something Rosie.”
If his comment was intended to be an olive branch to Ms. O’Donnell, she did not receive it that way. She replied to him, “U don’t even realize the kind of trouble u r in — comeys people believe in him — for real — they have the proof — u r a sadistic man #USA”.
Mr. Trump and Ms. O’Donnell have traded barbs since 2006. That year, she was a co-host on “The View” and criticized Mr. Trump on the show, mocking his haircut and mentioning his bankruptcies and record of not paying contractors. He responded by threatening to sue her and telling “Entertainment Tonight” that she was “disgusting” and “a slob” with “a fat, ugly face.”
Get the Morning Briefing by Email
What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
After the advent of Twitter, they took their attacks to social media. In a presidential debate between Mr. Trump and Hillary Clinton in September, he unexpectedly brought up his feud again.
“Somebody who has been very vicious to me, Rosie O’Donnell, I said very tough things to her and I think everybody would agree that she deserves it and nobody feels sorry for her,” he said.
A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2017, on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Schedule Includes A Feud Renewed. 

