The FBI’s handling of its investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email practices as secretary of state has been fraught with problems from beginning to end and does not reflect well on the bureau’s director or the attorney general, former Attorney General Michael Mukasey wrote over the weekend.
In a Wall Street Journal op-ed published late Sunday night, Mukasey wrote that any conclusions that can be drawn from FBI Director James Comey’s handling of the investigation and the publicity surrounding it “do no credit to him, or to the leadership of the Justice Department, of which the FBI is a part.”
That investigation, which Comey said in July was closed after he recommended against charges for Clinton over her use of a private email server as secretary of state, resurfaced Friday when the FBI director wrote to members of Congress, informing them that the bureau is investigating new evidence. Contrary to early reports, the investigation has not been officially reopened, but Comey’s note to Capitol Hill has nonetheless sent shockwaves through the presidential campaign with just over a week to go until Election Day.
Mukasey attacked Comey’s decision to recommend against charges for Clinton, poking an array of holes in his argument that “no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case” but pointing to misdemeanor and felony charges that could have been leveled at the former secretary of state. Beyond that, Mukasey wrote, Comey’s “authority extends only to supervising the gathering of facts to be presented to Justice Department lawyers” and not to any decision of whether or not charges should be brought.
Instead of allowing her to accept his recommendation as it relates to charges for Clinton, Mukasey wrote that Comey should have urged Attorney General Loretta Lynch to present whatever evidence the FBI uncovered to a grand jury. If she refused, Mukasey said, Comey should have gone public with his request and, if need be, resigned.
Noting that Comey wrote to Congress over the objections of both Lynch and her deputy, Mukasey wrote that “regardless of what is in the newly discovered emails, the current Justice Department will not permit a grand jury to hear evidence in this case. And because only a grand jury can constitutionally bring charges, that means no charges will be brought.”
“Which is to say, we know enough to conclude that what we don’t know is of little immediate relevance to our current dismal situation,” he added.
Mukasey is a former federal judge who served as attorney general during the administration of President George W. Bush.

