Jim Carrey could face trial over the death of his Irish makeup artist girlfriend, after a judge in Los Angeles ruled against throwing out the case brought by Cathriona White’s mother and estranged husband.
White, 30, was found dead in her Los Angeles home in September 2015 in what coroners ruled was suicide, from an overdose of painkillers.
Carrey, 55, said that he was devastated by her death, and attended the funeral in her hometown in Tipperary.
Yet White’s mother, Brigid Sweetman, and estranged husband, Mark Burton, launched legal action against the Canadian actor, who could at one time command $20 million for films such as 1994’s The Cable Guy.
They accuse Carrey of providing the prescription drugs Ambien, Propranolol and Percocet, on which she overdosed.
The Dumb And Dumber actor denies all the allegations, with his lawyers describing them as “malicious” and “predatory”.
Yet on Wednesday Judge Deirdre Hill of  Los Angeles Superior Court ruled that the case could go ahead, and set a trial date for April 26, 2018. She estimated a trial would take 20 days.
She also indicated, however, that this is not her final decision, and has said that she needs more time to consider the case.
After the hearing, Carrey’s lawyer, Raymond Boucher said: “Mr Carrey loved Ms White dearly and so obviously it will be a very painful process for him.”
Mr Boucher argued that allegations under drugs legislation were likely to fall outside the statute of limitations and said the wrongful death claims were too vague.
Ahmed Ibrahim, representing the claimants, denied the claim was vague.
“We are clearly not alleging that Jim Carrey was selling drugs out of the back of his pick-up truck, and was therefore not marketing or selling in the traditional sense of what that word would bring to mind,” he said.
Ms Sweetman also claims Carrey gave her daughter three sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and pressured her to keep it quiet before her death in September 2015. Carrey called the accusation "irrelevant".
Mr Burton's original complaint, filed last year, claimed: "Carrey wrongfully and illegally obtained these drugs in clear violation of California law."
It also stated that the actor had attempted to: "conceal and obfuscate his involvement and culpability in Miss White's untimely and tragic death".
White was to begin divorce proceedings from Mr Burton shortly before her death.
In a statement issued at the time, Carrey said of the lawsuits:  “What a terrible shame. It would be easy for me to get in a back room with this man’s lawyer and make this go away, but there are some moments in life when you have to stand up and defend your honour against the evil in this world.
“I will not tolerate this heartless attempt to exploit me or the woman I loved. Cat’s troubles were born long before I met her and sadly her tragic end was beyond anyone’s control.
“I really hope that some day soon people will stop trying to profit from this and let her rest in peace.”
Hours after the judge’s ruling, Carrey was on stage in Los Angeles to promote his new television series, I’m Dying Up Here, which depicts a group of struggling stand-up comedians in LA in the 1970s.
“I had such a glorious chance to be creative in this world of comedy,” said the actor, who made his name on the stand-up circuit.
“This is a labour of love. It was an idea that was rolling around in my head for a long time, and I really wanted to see the comedy world as it really was and the extraordinary experience that I actually was lucky enough to have.”
He was asked about the tone of the show.
“People who say: ‘Maybe this show is just a little too dark.’ Is it too dark?” he mused. “Darkness is where diamonds form.”
