In 2015, a report from the Department of Health and Human Services provided data for a state showing there were 12,000 non-disabled adults in the SNAP program at the start of the year. That is abuse and it needed to change.
The solution was to require individuals on welfare in Maine to either work or volunteer, and then 9,000 of them suddenly dropped out of the program.
This was all because of the Republican governor of Maine, Paul LePage, and his administration, who put this rule in place hoping to encourage people to be self-sufficient.
The new rule prevented adults without a disability and/or dependents from receiving more than three months of food stamps unless they worked 20 hours a week, volunteered, or were in a work-training program.
Mary Mayhew, the DHHS commissioner, stated the goal of this was to encourage more people to look for jobs and find work. “If you’re on these programs, it means you are living in poverty, and so the more that we can help incentive people on that pathway to employment and self-sufficiency, the better off they’re going to be,” she stated.
If you lose your benefits in the state of Maine, you cannot regain them for three years. In 2015, Maine is one of eight states that did not use a federal waiver for this program of the 37 that were eligible.
LePage and his administration do not support encouraging people to be idle. In their mind, if you seek welfare and food stamps, then you need to be doing all you can to show that you deserve it. If you can’t get a job, then you need to show that you are looking and applying or getting education or volunteer experience that may help you.
State Rep. Scott Hamann (D-South Portland) introduced a bill that would have the administration looking into waivers for counties that did not have enough jobs and had a high unemployment rate.
A spokesman from DHHS, David Sorensen, stated that people only need to volunteer for 24 hours in the span of a month to comply with the program requirements. There should be enough opportunities for everyone to either get a job or volunteer even if certain areas are economically depressed.
Putting restrictions on welfare users and requiring them to be get jobs or volunteer is something President Trump’s administration should look into doing because too many people abuse the welfare system.
People cannot and should not stay on welfare and food stamps forever. Encouraging them to start on the path to self-sufficiency is really the best thing we can do for these people.
If you stay on welfare, you’re preventing someone else who really needs it from getting into the program. Those who can work should, and there isn’t really an excuse other than a disability that should prevent you from obtaining and holding a job.
The American people have had enough of the welfare queens, who manipulate the lax government regulations and get paid way too much money in a system that is supposed to barely sustain you. This Maine program is a program the entire country needs to implement!
What do you think about this program in Maine? Should it be passed in the whole country? Please share this story on Facebook and tell us because we want to hear YOUR voice!
