This is Congressman Captain Clay Higgins. On Sunday, June 4, 2017, I published a Facebook post saying that “all of Christendom … is at war with Islamic horror,” and that “not a single radicalized Islamic suspect should be granted any measure of quarter,” mainly because it sounds so much more badass than saying “given safe haven.”
I also said that we should hunt down those same suspects and “kill them. Kill them all. For the sake of all that is good and righteous. Kill them all.”
Now, a lot of weak-kneed, godless liberals were upset by that post. They said I was inciting a holy war in which mobs would begin carrying out extrajudicial executions of people they suspected of being Islamic terrorists. They claimed that I — a good, Christian man who occasionally takes care of his family — was using my faith in Christ to disguise a bloodlust.
That is absolutely laughable. My deep-seated desire to see fatal retribution meted out in less than precise measures is seething for all to see.
Jesus would walk the extra mile and turn the other cheek, right before blowing the heads off of every Muslim accused of being radicalized.
They asked, “What would Jesus do?” Well, I’ll tell you what Jesus would do. Jesus would totally kill Muslim terror suspects.
I read the Bible all the time. Just look at my congressional campaign photos. And I know Jesus would go the extra mile and turn the other cheek, right before blowing the heads off of every Muslim accused of being radicalized.
In fact, I have a message for every heathen animal Muslim even thinking about maybe becoming radicalized sometime in the future and possibly considering discussing conducting an act of terror, or anyone who may know someone who might think about maybe becoming radicalized sometime in the future and possibly considering discussing conducting an act of terror and doesn’t immediately kill that heathen animal Muslim right there on the spot:
Listen to me, son. I’m talking to you. You’re no good. You’ve ruined your life. I suggest you get your affairs in order. You will be hunted. You will be trapped.
Rest assured, Jesus is going to find you, kill you, and send you to hell. After that, I’m going to have a cheeseburger, with fries and a Coke, and leave a nice tip for the waitress, as long as she isn’t my ex-wife, because I refuse to give that Jezebel another dime.
You don’t like what I’m saying? I’m easy to find. Just ask anybody in the Acadiana swinger scene.
