We have to wonder why liberals think Obama did such a good job as president.
The national debt and the shocking number of people on government programs proves he did a poor job. A good president helps restore the economy, so that Americans have job opportunities. Instead Obama made it easy for more and more people to take instead of give.
A thriving nation is one full of people who work. They earn a living to support their families. They take ownership of their own lives.
A nation full of people getting food stamps is weak. Those people need the government to take care of them. That’s a bad situation to be in.
But now that President Trump is in office, things are changing. We see jobs coming back into the country. The stock market is booming. Companies have promised to invest in American labor.
On top of that, Trump is getting the federal budget under control. He is reforming government handout programs.
The first one to get serous changes will be food stamps. And a few freeloaders are getting the boot.
From Yes I’m Right:
Overseeing the food benefit program (SNAP) is The U.S. Department of Agriculture, who reportedly has almost 43.6 million people getting food stamps as of April 2016.
On that massive meal ticket are a particularly grotesque bunch of criminals who have been convicted of sickening sex crimes and murder. These violent perverts are among those getting the boot…
Felons aren’t the only ones on the potential chopping block. Those who were lucky enough to win a large lottery sum or gambling winnings aren’t so lucky that they get to keep their welfare and windfall of funds.
If they happen to spend through that cash and wind up in need again, they can get on welfare, but the proposal would prevent them from being on it while benefitting from their cash prize.
Imagine that. Under Obama, murderers and sex offenders were getting free food, courtesy of you and men. Even worse, people who won millions on the lotto or gambling were getting their food bill comped–by the U.S. tax payer.
Why was Obama so intent of protecting these two groups? Food stamps and Welfare are meant to help those struggling to find work, not criminals and lotto winners.
It seems like liberals just love spending our money, regardless on who. They love to punish hard-working tax payers to reward child molesters and gamblers. Insane.
But that’s all coming to an end. President Trump is ending such abuses and getting federal programs back on track.
Yet another reason you should be happy he won.
