“This is only the beginning.” These were the words of the House Intelligence Committee chairman, Devin Nunes, who is investigating the possibly illegal “unmasking” operation that took place to scupper Donald Trump’s Presidential bid.
Three top officials (all holdovers from the Obama administration) have been subpoenaed to appear and will face some pretty tough questions. But the reality is, we already know what happened. Obama and Clinton used their positions to essentially put Donald Trump under illegal surveillance by getting warrants on every non-American who he met (creating a net to ensure they can listen in on every single conversation).
They planned to use this information to derail Trump’s campaign and secure Hillary the top spot; but the problem for them is, there WAS NO DIRT! This is why they commissioned the “Salacious Dossier” from a British Intelligence company who specialize in industrial espionage.
If the Democrats had spent more time campaigning and perfecting their policies, they wouldn’t have had to try and cheat, and the prosecutions that are sure to follow the Senate Commission would never need happen.
House Select Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes had five words during a recent interview on The John Batchelor Show about the Obama administration unmasking scandal rocking Washington.
(Check out video of Rep. Devin Nunes blindsiding the Obama Administration at the end of this article)
“This is only the beginning.”
The Committee just named three top Obama officials in subpoenas during their investigation into the unlawful unmasking of Americans close to the Trump campaign before and after the 2016 election. Those officials were: former UN ambassador Samantha Power, former CIA director John Brennan, and former White House National Security Advisor Susan Rice.
Rep. Devin Nunes initially broke the news about top Obama administration officials potentially abusing power several months ago. When the NSA collects data, the agency purposefully masks the identity of Americans to protect them from unlawful supervision.
The three named Obama administration officials allegedly requested that the identities of people on the Trump team be unmasked. Nunes has claimed that they were unmasked for political reasons.
During the interview Monday Nunes reiterated that it was “very unusual” for a UN ambassador like Power to unmask an American “under any circumstances, at any level…no matter where they are serving.”
The most interesting part is that those three named are only a few of those Nunes suspects of abusing their power, he says: “There are many more officials that we have concerns about abusing the intelligence programs.”
Check out the video of Rep. Nunes announcing Obama official’s subpoenas below- Bet Obama never saw that coming!
Something was definitely fishy in the allegedly “scandal-free” Obama administration. I am so excited for the Committee to move forward to these proceedings, and we will be reporting on them closely- so stay tuned!
