In a Thursday press conference, Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from involvement in any Department of Justice (DOJ) investigations related to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign.
Sessions spoke of consultations he held with senior staffers and ethic officials at the DOJ. In so doing, he received and accepted recommendations to recuse himself from matters related to the Trump campaign:
“My staff recommended recusal. They said that since I had involvement with the campaign, I should not be involved in any campaign investigation. I have studied the rules and considered their comments and evaluation. I believe those recommendations are right and just, therefore I have recused myself in the matters that deal with the Trump campaign.”
Sessions also dismissed innuendo pushed by Democrats and their political allies in the news media framing him as an interlocutor between the Trump campaign and Russian government. Such narratives framing him as an agent of malign foreign influence were “totally false,” he said:
“Let me be clear, I never had meetings with Russian operatives of Russian intermediaries about the Trump campaign. The idea that I was part of a ‘continuing exchange of information’ during the campaign between Trump surrogates and intermediaries for the Russian government is totally false. That is the question that Senator Franken asked me at the hearing, and that’s what got my attention as he noted it was breaking news… and that is the question I responded to. I did not respond by referring to the two meetings – one very brief after a speech, and one with two of my senior professional staffers with the Russian ambassador in Washington – where no such things were discussed. In my reply to the question of Senator Franken was honest and correct as I understood it at the time. I appreciate that some have taken the view that this was a false comment. That is not my intent, that is not correct.”
Recusal from matters related to Trump’s campaign amounted to promises made during his confirmation hearing to conduct himself with integrity, said Sessions:
“At my confirmation hearing, I promised that I would do this: ‘If a specific matter arose where I believed my impartiality might reasonably be questioned, I would consult with the department ethics officials regarding the most appropriate way to proceed.’ That’s what I told them at the confirmation hearing.”
TOGETHER WE WILL MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
