In a press conference earlier today, scientists with the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Quantum Sciences and Technology Group sheepishly murmured into a microphone about the existence of another reality where Donald Trump is an excellent U.S. president.
“If we are led to believe that there are an infinite number of realities — and an infinite number of possibilities in those realities — then it only stands to reason that one of these President Trumps is the best president ever,” quantum physicist and group spokesman Fred Tullin said. “It’s something I hoped I would never have to say in my lifetime, but there it is. Now I need a drink.”
Tullin highlighted the number of snafus Trump has committed in just his first few months in the White House, pointing out there’s a world where none of this happened.
“I did it guys! Best president ever #AlternateTrump,” Trump tweeted. “I’d like to be the first to congratulate myself on a job well done #HillarySad.”
“As hard as it is to believe, infinite means infinite,” Tullin explained, “and somewhere out in those scenarios, Trump has done no wrong and is loved by all. He might even serve for eight years.”
The 46-year-old father of two then broke down in tears, forcing him to exit the room in the middle of the presser.
Upon hearing the scientific proclamation, Trump took to Twitter to gloat.
“I did it guys! Best president ever #AlternateTrump,” Trump tweeted. “I’d like to be the first to congratulate myself on a job well done #HillarySad.”
Trump then followed it up with five tweets about a duck that looked at him funny.
News of this optimum, hypothetical plane of existence excited many loyal Trump supporters.
“I knew it! We just haven’t given Trump enough time,” unemployed plumber Ned Sillit said. “The liberal media and their biases have clouded everyone’s opinion about Trump, but now the truth can come out.”
Sillit then fired a semi-automatic weapon into the air for about 30 seconds.
Those who might be shocked by this news can be reassured that there are also realms of existence where Trump lost last year’s presidential election.
“We understand this news hits some of you pretty hard,” backup spokeswoman Rachel Awes said, “so maybe it will help if you knew there is a world where we didn’t elect Trump?”
Awes was then booed off the stage.
