WikiLeaks has revealed that literally every wireless internet router in the United States has been compromised by CIA hacking. The latest Vault 7 release from Julian Assange's whistleblowing organization has exposed the Cherry Blossom Project that attacks devices that are connected wireless to the internet using a Wi-Fi connection. The scheme was designed to infiltrate mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets as well as laptops and desktop computers. As leading cyber security experts have warned, the hacking techniques developed by the CIA can easily fall into the hands of rogue hackers and turned against the public. The latest exposé from Assange et al. has left experts concerned that American citizens may be left wide open to ransomware attacks from hackers similar to the recent WannaCry malware that affected thousands of computers worldwide. 


Failed Evolution reports: As cyber security expert John McAfee told to RT and Natasha Sweatte: Virtually, every router that's in use in the American home are accessible to hackers, to the CIA, that they can take over the control of the router, they can monitor all of the traffic, and worse, they can download malware into any device that is connected to that router. I personally, never connect to any Wi-Fi system, I use the LTE on my phone. That's the only way that I can be secure because every router in America has been compromised. 
We've been warning about it for years, nobody pays attention until something like WikiLeaks comes up and says "look, this is what's happening". And it is devastating in terms of the impact on American privacy because once the router is compromised and it infects the cell phones that are attached, your laptop, your desktop computer, your tablet, then they become compromised and [someone] can watch the data, start listening to conversations, start watching through the cameras on these devices. We are in a situation with our government where they know everything about us and we know nothing about what the government is doing. They have the right to privacy and secrecy, but the individual does not, anymore. 
