Well, what do you know?
It seems Bill Clinton isn’t the only one using the tarmac for a meeting place, as he did when he probably threatened former AG Loretta Lynch back in June 2016 to drop the investigation of Hillary.
There’s another tarmac meeting that Clinton knew all about. It may be why her dear friend and Special Counsel Mueller has hired a lawyer from her wonderful Clinton Foundation to help him with his “investigation”. What a joke! SERIOUSLY?!
It’s just one scandalous crook trying to hide all the evidence about the Russia collusion which is REALLY more about Hillary than President Trump. Don’t believe me, just google ‘Uranium One’ and Hillary Clinton. How can ANYONE think Mueller can be impartial when it comes to his duties as Special Counsel?
H/T Zero Hedge:
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton facilitated the transfer a highly enriched uranium (HEU) previously confiscated by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) during a 2006 “nuclear smuggling sting operation involving one Russian national and several Georgian accomplices,” a newly leaked classified cable shows.
So-called “background” information was provided in the cable which gave vague details on a 2006 nuclear smuggling sting operation in which the U.S. government took possession of some HEU previously owned by the Russians.
The secret “action request,” dated Aug. 17, 2009, was sent out by Secretary of State Clinton and was addressed to the United States Ambassador to Georgia Embassy Tbilisi, the Russian Embassy, and Ambassador John Beyrle.
 
It proposed that FBI Director Robert Mueller be the one that personally conduct the transfer a 10-gram sample of HEU to Russian law enforcement sources during a secret “plane-side” meeting on a “tarmac” in the early fall of 2009.
The FBI Director was originally scheduled to ‘return’ a sample from the DOE stockpile to the Russians in April but the trip was postponed until September 21.
Paragraph number 6 of the leaked cable confirms Dir. Mueller’s Sept. 21 flight to Moscow.
 “(S/Rel Russia) Action request: Embassy Moscow is requested to alert at the highest appropriate level the Russian Federation that FBI Director Mueller plans to deliver the HEU sample once he arrives to Moscow on September 21. Post is requested to convey information in paragraph 5 with regard to chain of custody, and to request details on Russian Federation’s plan for picking up the material. Embassy is also requested to reconfirm the April 16 understanding from the FSB verbally that we will have no problem with the Russian Ministry of Aviation concerning Mueller’s September 21 flight clearance.”
