PYONGYANG, Dprk. – U.S. officials met in secret with a delegation from North Korea last month to iron out the details of a historic agreement that will allow the Trump Organization to open a luxury hotel and casino in Pyongyang as an incentive for the regime to dismantle its nuclear program, a senior State Department official told The Wall Street Journal on Friday.
“North Koreans may soon find themselves enjoying all the benefits and experiences that a five-star luxury resort has to offer,” State Department spokesperson Stacy Friedman told The Journal. Under the agreement, the United States will purchase the Ryugyong Hotel, a 105-story pyramid-shaped skyscraper located in Pyongyang, for $850 million before turning ownership of the property over to the Trump Organization. “Ultimately, North Korea will pay us back for the cost of the hotel,” explained Ms. Friedman before adding that the five-star resort will provide a significant boost to North Korea’s struggling economy.
While the United States does not maintain official contact with the country’s reclusive leadership, officials have expressed confidence that North Korea’s Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un will be “extremely satisfied” with Pyongyang’s Trump International Hotel and Casino. “One of the more visually stunning aspects of this property is its sheer size, especially when compared to the Trump World towers in Seoul,” a senior White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the press, told The Washington Times.
In addition to becoming one of Asia’s most sought after vacation destinations, the Trump International Hotel and Casino in Pyongyang could serve as an impromptu embassy for the United States. “You’re going to have a very neutral environment where American and North Korean officials can get together and socialize,” Michael Winthrop, who served as an adviser to former U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Mark Lippert, told Real News Right Now. “Regardless of your political leanings, this is a clear opportunity to establish some form of common ground.”
As of Friday morning, the Trump Organization had yet to set a date for the grand opening of its luxury hotel and casino in downtown Pyongyang. Still, North Korea’s Central News Agency publicly acknowledged the project, calling the five-star resort a “glorious gift to the Chairman of the Workers Party of Korea from the U.S. imperialist aggressors.” The news agency added that North Korea is prepared to “ruthlessly savage the United States in nuclear hell fire” at a moment’s notice.
