The question is, will the 2017 NBA Champions Golden State Warriors meet Donald Trump in the White House, as is custom for winning teams?
It didn’t take the Golden State Warriors long to decide to skip the traditional championship White House visit.
Less than 24 hours after winning the 2017 NBA Finals on Monday night, the Warriors unanimously voted to decline the expected White House invitation, according to several reports including one by CNBC analyst Josh Brown.
The Golden State organization addressed the issue Tuesday, saying that “we have not received an invitation to the White House, but will make those decisions when and if necessary.”
Veteran forward David West, who has been outspoken in his disapproval of President Donald Trump, told The Undefeated’s Marc Spears that he ‘probably’ will decline the opportunity.
“I don’t know. I probably won’t,” West said.
The Warriors attended the White House ceremony to honor their 2015 NBA Finals win over the Cleveland Cavaliers when former President Barack Obama was in the White House.
NBA champion Warriors skipping the White House visit, as a unanimous team decision per reports.
— Downtown Josh Brown (@ReformedBroker) June 13, 2017
But were the reports actually true?
A lot of people took Brown’s tweet at face value and ran with it. They praised the Warriors for being “woke” and applauded them for being the first team to turn down an invitation to the White House following Trump’s takeover:
The Golden State Warriors voted unanimously to skip their entire visit to Donald Trump's White House.
As woke as any team in sports.
— Shaun King (@ShaunKing) June 13, 2017
However, it seems as though Brown’s tweet wasn’t based on any inside information that he gathered from a Warriors source. Rather, Vocativ is reporting that Brown sent his tweet out after seeing this tweet that was sent out by Mike Sington, the former director of operations at Universal Studios:
 
The news comes the day after Clemson visited the White House in honor of its college football national championship win over Alabama in January.
The Warriors’ rejection of the White House’s invitation builds on the sentiment expressed by several New England Patriots who announced they would not attend the Trump White House ceremony in April. Notable Patriots who missed the April ceremony were Tom Brady—  who said he would not attend for personal reasons— Legarrette Blount, Martellus Bennett and Danny Amendola.
The Warriors did receive an invitation to Washington from U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), whose district includes the San Francisco Bay Area.
 
Thirty-four Patriots were present for the White House ceremony to honor their Super Bowl 51 win, which was a similar number of attendees when the Patriots won in 2004 and 2005, according to Patriots spokesman Stacey James.
And at the end THE FINAL UPDATE: