It looks like while Obama was president, he and his family have spent a staggering amount on vacations reaching higher than  $85 million. Last year’s Christmas cost Obama about $5 million of taxpayer money. From December 18th to January 3rd, the Obamas will be basking in the sun on the sand of Hawaii’s most luxurious and decadent beaches.
Last year’s Christmas cost Obama about $5 million of taxpayer money. From December 18th to January 3rd. the Obamas will be basking in the sun on the sand of Hawaii’s most luxurious and decadent beaches. They will be spending taxpayer money to ‘live it up’ on this vacation.
According to reports, Christmas 2015 cost Obama $4,823,206.88, which includes the robust U.S. Secret Service detail, flights and transportation and lodging for the security officials. Tom Fitton, president of Judicial Watch, said in a statement:

“The Secret Service and the Air Force are being abused by unnecessary travel. Unnecessary presidential travel for fundraising and luxury vacations on the taxpayers’ dime would be a good target for reform for the incoming Trump administration.”

Judicial Watch released the following in their report:

“According to bills obtained by Judicial Watch through the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the Secret Service also paid for rooms at the Hawaii Prince Hotel Waikiki and Golf Club.
The Secret Service also reserved rooms at the Moana Surfrider resort on Waikiki Beach, and the Ala Moana Hotel, which cost a total of $40,249.48 and $671,895.99, respectively. The Secret Service rented cars from Avis, Alamo, and Hertz — 103 cars for the two-week vacation, totaling $165,893.88 in taxpayer money.
Reportedly, the Obamas stayed at the Hale Reena Estate, which ‘rents for anywhere between $5,000 to $10,000 a night, depending on the season.’”
“Although the vacation officially lasted from December 18, 2015, to January 3, 2016, the Secret Service rented several Kailua homes for 19 nights, starting from December 16.  The total for the rentals, located near the Marine Corps base at Kaneohe Bay was $245,993.12.”
These are some of the comments left under the report:

“Camp David was built specifically as a retreat for the President and his family, instead of the man in the street being security serviced to death every time the POTUS decides to vacation in some exotic location and of course, footing the bill.”
 “I didn’t mind them leaving the country on vacation but they kept coming back.”

“I can’t see how people are surprised by this. Why do you think they jacked up the taxes over the last eight years?”
