In a town known for loose lips, Marco Rubio believes Donald Trump is getting a raw deal.
During his exchange with former FBI Director James Comey at Thursday’s Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, the Florida Republican lamented the volume of leaks in connection with the agency’s probe of Russian meddling into last year’s election and any connections there may have been with the Trump campaign.
Hat tip / Constitution.com
One Senator expertly unmasked every angle of Trump-phobia and used Comey’s own words to prove that the President has done nothing wrong (except maybe lie about why he fired Comey, which is Comey’s opinion). Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) dissected Comey’s lengthy statement to Congress, and then dove in and applied his testimony to as many of the “fake news” Trump stories as he could… and the result was clear to anyone paying attention; President Trump did nothing wrong.
https://twitter.com/intent/retweet?tweet_id=872833280541851648 
 
So what did Rubio say (or get Comey to say) that put all of the Trump-skeptic media stories to bed. Watch for yourself as Senator Rubio tears away all of the negative press and gets to the truth about what has been happening behind closed doors for the last few months.
Rubio expertly reveals that there are really only 3 major issues at play here, and only 3 things that should concern us about anything the President has done over the last few months:
Trump asked for Comey’s “loyalty.”
Trump asked Comey to let the “Mike Flynn thing go,” a sentiment he repeated in the media the very next day.
Trump asked Comey to tell America what he had already told Trump and Congress – that he wasn’t under investigation.
The first issue on this list was heavy-handed and something that President Trump should have known was the wrong thing to do. The second issue, according to Comey’s on testimony, seemed to be a matter of a friend advocating for a friend, and not an attempt to pressure Comey to not pursue justice. According to Comey’s testimony the President truly believes that Flynn did nothing wrong, and was simply a victim of the witch hunt against Trump. Finally, the last request makes perfect sense, especially since the media was constantly arguing that Trump was indeed under investigation.
Comey agreed that these were the core issues at play here, which is when Rubio asks “This investigation is full of leaks… did you ever wonder why, of all the things in this investigation, the only thing that has never been leaked is the fact that the President was not personally under investigation…?”
