Democrat Senator, Kirsten Gillibrand, recently let loose in a foul-mouthed rant — targeting President Trump at the Personal Democracy Forum at New York University. The rant was captured on video, revealing the unsavory, R-rated language for the world to see.
That sort of language would not be acceptable on a construction site, much less coming from the mouth of an elected U.S. senator.
Comments such as these are best reserved for the cab of a pickup truck, or a bar or locker room, and should never be uttered publicly by a politician — especially when referring to the president of the United States.
The Democrat senator was clearly attempting to pander to younger audiences by “being hip,” and cursing like a sailor — but her effort to appear cool backfired in every way possible.
Older, more conservative Americans were shocked by the unprofessional language, and young people could smell the pandering a mile away, leaving Gillibrand looking foolish.
Even the moderator was shocked by Gillibrand’s foul mouth. He was forced to remind Gillibrand to keep it clean by dropping a hint — his 90-year-old mother was watching from the front row.
Senator Gillibrand’s choice of words inadvertently revealed a major problem for the Democrats. The party has made no effort to recover following their historic 2016 electoral loss. Now, Democrat members of congress are floundering in their attempts to appeal to the American voters.
The Democrats know they cannot win a policy debate. President Trump’s legislative agenda is perfectly aligned with tax-paying Americans. The only option for Democrats is to promise more free stuff, and to slander the duly-elected president at every turn.
Their vapid strategy is already starting to wear thin, and voters are realizing that the Democrats have nothing positive to offer.
Democrats are stuck between beating a dead Russian horse, and baseless accusations that President Trump is a bully. If they cannot think of something concrete to offer in the next year, they will lose even more seats in 2018.
Watch the video below:
