North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has lashed out in response to the two supersonic bombers that President Trump authorized to fly over the communist state, following confirmation that Otto Warmbier had died after his release from North Korea. The 22-year-old was held in North Korea for more than 15 months and died a week after he returned to the US in a coma after being "badly beaten" prior to his release. Donald Trump said his administration will "handle" the threat of Kim Jong-un, pledging to prevent future tragedies happening to other innocent Americans citizens. Angered by the US President's show of aggression, Pyongyang released a statement vowing to completely destroy the United States with a nuclear retaliation strike. The statement released via the state’s mouthpiece Rodong Sinmun said: "The US’s persistent sanctions and military pressure will only precipitate its miserable end."
"No matter how desperate the US tightens the sanctions and military pressure, the DPRK [North Korea] will bring stronger pressure and bitterer suffering to it." "If the US imperialists dare provoke the DPRK, failing to properly understand its military might and strategic position and its army and people’s fixed will to settle accounts with the US, they will face a mercilessly annihilating retaliatory strike." "The DPRK will keep to the road chosen by it, resolutely meeting the U.S. vicious and desperate challenge by bolstering up its nuclear force."
Express reports: The North was also keen to defend its recent weapons tests, claiming their military only wanted to “ensure the lasting peace and security in the Korean peninsula and the region”. Their defense follows rumors that Kim Jong-un wants to become “King of Korea”, amid reports he is hoping to reunify the divided region. An anonymous North Korean defector revealed Jong-un’s plans to become “King of Korea” and reportedly said: "History has proved that the North Korea state will never give up its nuclear capability and their final goal is the unification of Korea on their own terms."
