CNN has an odd relationship with President Trump. CNN’s CEO Jeff Zucker and Donald Trump are old friends.
They met when Zucker was at NBC and worked with Donald Trump on the mega hit “The Apprentice.”
In fact, it was Zucker who originally approved the show when he ran NBC. He took a big gamble on Trump and it paid off handsomely.
Zucker made the same bet on Trump during the election. As a candidate CNN, famously, was ripped apart by Hillary’s supporters for showing every Trump rally live.
CNN even realized that just showing the empty stage at a Trump rally while the crowd waited for Trump to appear would outdraw any Hillary event or speech.
That alone was enough evidence that Trump was going to win. We, all Americans, literally could not get enough of candidate Trump.
After his epic, come from behind victory in November Zucker gambled again on Trump. He thought there could be a gold mine in leading the anti-Trump charge.
The opposition party always has more energy that the winning one. So, it was smart for CNN in the short term to go all in against Trump but oif they don’t change course soon they will certainly do long term damage to the brand.
When you lie about a President for ratings you eventually will lose all credibility. And when a news organization loses credibility they are finished.
And it seems CNN Executives have finally figured this basic law of economics and have wised up.
According to the Daily Caller, CNN executives are cracking down big time on any lies related to Trump or Trump Russia.
Why now? The abrupt reversal came after huge backlash when CNN published another fake story regarding President Trump and Russia.
The lie was so bad it was immediately struck down by everyone – even the liberals. It was a brutal blow to the network that caused this new directive from top brass to Anerson Cooper and the rest of CNN’s liberal TV hosts
“No one should publish any content involving Russia without coming to me and Jason,” CNNMoney executive editor Rich Barbieri said in an email to staffers. “This applies to social, video, editorial, and MoneyStream. No exceptions.”
Share this if you think CNN is finally doing the right thing.
