It’s called the Logan Act and you just violated it, Barack Obama. It’s a felony and comes with a lengthy jail sentence. In case you are not familiar, when you violated the Logan act you basically committed treason.
From Wikipedia,
“The Logan Act (1 Stat. 613, 18 U.S.C. § 953, enacted January 30, 1799) is a United States federal law that details the fine and/or imprisonment of unauthorized citizens who negotiate with foreign governments having a dispute with the United States. It was intended to prevent the undermining of the government’s position.[2] The Act was passed following George Logan’s unauthorized negotiations with France in 1798, and was signed into law by President John Adams on January 30, 1799. The Act was last amended in 1994, and violation of the Logan Act is a felony.”
You are not president anymore Barack Obama, stop acting like it. If for no other reason than you value your personal freedom.
And worse, stop going around the globe undermining President Trump. You show up in Germany when Trump had his first meeting with NATO, you show up in Italy when he is meeting with the G7.
You show up like that gnome from the travel commercials wherever Trump is as if to advertise your shadow government is real and you offer an alternative to Trump.
Elections have consequences, the Democrats are finished as a political party and your career is finished in politics. So please go away and let the next President run the world without your back seat driving.
Just days after Trump pulled out of the Paris accords, days after the liberals all melted down and world leaders said we were all doomed, Obama was out with a leader who bashed Trump.How not joining a voluntary, toothless, non-enforceable climate deal will doom the world is beyond me but reality has never impeded on the liberal’s hysteria before.
After Paris Obama blasted Trump saying,
 
“Obviously I’m disappointed with the current American administration decision to put out of Paris. We’re going to have to act with more urgency. I’m looking forward to the United States being a leader and not just on the sidelines going forward.”
The Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau also bashed Trump for pulling out of the deal and so it was a bit of a shocker when these two anti-Trump men met so shortly after their attacks.
 
Is that all you were talking about guys? We don’t believe you. We know what you are up to and you should be ashamed of yourself Barack.
What do you think about this?
Share this post and leave your comment below.
Like our page on facebook.
Note: We at uspostman cannot make any warranties about the completeness, reliability and accuracy of this information.
Source: worldnewspolitics
