Tucker Carlson nailed it in a segment addressing the whole Comey mess. I don’t agree with Tucker Carlson totally on Russia. He’s far too willing to give them tons of slack and cozy up with them. And there were and are Russian plants in our government. However, this whole Russian witch hunt by the left is nothing short of a plan to topple the Trump administration. It is plain as day to me that this whole memo thing was planned ahead of time by Comey to entrap President Trump. But it failed. Comey got the timeline wrong and unmasked himself as leaking to the New York Times concerning privileged conversations with President Trump. Comey broke the law and violated agreements and the Trump administration has filed a complaint with the DOJ. Just as they should.
What I saw during the Comey testimony was one of the most cowardly, backstabbing political moves I have ever seen. And that’s saying something. Comey threw shade on Jeff Sessions’ meetings with Russians. He lied about Jeff Sessions in order to embroil him in the investigation and to try and force his resignation. The left fears Sessions and therefore this sly move to claim Russian involvement is nothing short of slander and another part of an attempted coup. I consider what Comey did to be very close to treason.
From Breitbart:
“[H]ere is what is true – as of 8 p.m. Eastern time tonight, Donald Trump is still the president of the U.S., and that means on the most basic level, Comey’s testimony failed to achieve its goal. Make no mistake, removing Trump from office was the goal. ‘There was collusion, Russia hacked our election, assault to our democracy, imperils our way of life!’ You hear those all the time. You hear them every night on this show but nobody in D.C. actually believes any of that, and that’s why nobody ever explains how exactly it happened or what specifically the effects of it were. Because they have no idea. And in fact, they don’t really care. They just want Trump gone along with anyone who is in the way. Russia is just a means.”
Carlson also noted one the latest targets of this effort is Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who is under further scrutiny for having met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak for an undisclosed third time.
Nonetheless, the ultimate goal of this “hoax” according to the Fox News Channel host was to topple “a democratically elected government” that people in Washington, D.C. did not like.
“[A]gain, this is not about truth or fairness, much less protecting this country from foreign threats,” he added. “It’s about toppling – let’s not lie about it – a democratically elected government that the permanent class in Washington does not like. Now again, collusion with a foreign government against the interest of the United States is tantamount to treason. It is definitely a moral crime, and we would never defend it. We would attack it, of course. There is just no evidence it actually happened. This whole story is a hoax. It’s a lie that those who tell it they tell it are beginning to believe. That is the definition of mass hysteria. It is deeply hurting our country, and yet otherwise smart people press forward as if it is all entirely real despite mounting evidence it is not real at all.”
The left has tried everything they can to remove Trump from office… screaming impeachment, bogus congressional hearings, media attacks… and none of it has worked. Trump is still President and the left is still fuming. I agree with Tucker, Comey’s testimony was yet another attempt to force Trump out of office and it did not work. For eight long months, Democrats have alleged that Trump’s presidential campaign colluded with Russian operatives to undermine Hillary Clinton’s campaign and American democracy. But according to Carlson, nobody in Washington “actually believes” that. Instead, they use the Trump-Russia narrative as a means to try to expel Trump from the White House.
As Carlson pointed out, first they branded Trump as a racist. When that didn’t take off, they painted him as a traitor. “A Russian agent posing as a 70-year-old New York real-estate developer,” Carlson said. “It sounded kinda far-fetched, but for some reason it kinda worked. Half the country seemed to buy it and 100 percent of CNN viewers were all in. It’s been all [Russian President Vladimir] Putin since then,” he added. That is true. And you know what? Putin is laughing at us over this. We don’t go after his real cyber attacks or his military moves. Instead we bog ourselves down in finger pointing. It’s just stupid and a monstrous waste of time. Meanwhile, Russia is moving forward because they don’t give a crap.
While Tucker Carlson and I do not see eye to eye entirely on Russia, we both agree this is a witch hunt. It’s an attempted coup of a sitting President. We used to call that treason.
