President Donald Trump has a team that makes typos while special counsel Robert Mueller’s legal team is full of pros.
At the Justice Department, a team of prosecutors is busy investigating into the Trump campaign’s possible ties to Russia.
The team is led by special counsel Robert Mueller, who is a former FBI director. The team  includes Michael Dreeben, an expert on criminal law, and Andrew Weissmann, a seasoned prosecutor.
At the Justice Department, a team of prosecutors is busy investigating into the Trump campaign’s possible ties to Russia.
The team is led by special counsel Robert Mueller, who is a former FBI director. The team  includes Michael Dreeben, an expert on criminal law, and Andrew Weissmann, a seasoned prosecutor.
 
James Quarles, a former assistant special prosecutor for the Watergate investigation; Jeannie Rhee, a former senior adviser to former Attorney General Eric Holder and a white-collar crime specialist; and Aaron Zebley, a cybersecurity expert who spent decades in the FBI before joining a private practice are some of the team members.
 
The Mueller team is trying to find out whether Trump had asked them to try to persuade Comey to drop the FBI’s probe into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, according to the Post.
Trump’s team, by contrast, is led by Marc Kasowitz, a Wall Street lawyer with minimal experience in federal investigations, Michael Bowe and Jay Sekulow, are known more for their time on TV than their time in the courtroom.
Team Trump just doesn’t have the right experience
As Politico reported, more than 12 lawyers are already working to represent Trump and a small group of his aides, including Trump’s son-in-law and right-hand man Jared Kushner, former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, former campaign chair Paul Manafort, Trump personal attorney Michael Cohen, and former campaign advisers Carter Page, Roger Stone, Boris Epshteyn, and Michael Caputo.
 
Mueller  has put a team together, “Experience at the FBI, experience at the DOJ, experience working with members of the Congress — these are all critical to working quickly,” said Michael German, a fellow at New York University’s Brennan Center for Justice and a former FBI special agent. “You don’t want anyone having to learn how those communication channels work while they’re on the job.”
