There’s this funny story about Hillary. One day, she was hit by a truck while walking down the street and she died. When she arrives in heaved, St.Peter greets her at the entrance.
St.Peter: “Welcome to Heaven. Before you settle in, it seems there is a problem. We seldom see a politician around these parts, you see, so we’re not sure what to do with you.”
Hillary: “No problem, just let me in.”
St.Peter: “Well, I’d like to but I have orders from higher up. What we’ll do is have you spend one day in Hell and one in Heaven. Then you can choose where to spend eternity.”
Hillary: “Really, I’ve made up my mind. I want to be in Heaven.”
St.Peter, escorting her to an elevator that will take her to hell: “I’m sorry but we have our rules.”
When the doors open in hell, Hillary finds herself in the middle of a green golf course. In the distance she sees her friends and fellow politicians standing in a club. They are all very happy and are dressed very glamorously. They greet her and start talking about the good times when she spent the people’s money.
The president is the Devil, who really is a very friendly guy who has a good time dancing and telling jokes. After a while, she returns back to heaven at is greeted once again by St.Peter.
St.Peter: “Now it’s time to visit Heaven.”
After 24 hours...
St.Peter: “Well then, you’ve spent a day in Hell and another in Heaven. Now choose your eternity.”
Hillary: “Well, I would never have said it, I mean Heaven has been delightful, but I think I would be better off in Hell.”
St.Peter escorts her to the elevator. But, now she goes to a middle of a barren land covered with waste and garbage. Her friends are dressed in rags, picking up the trash and putting it in black bags. The Devil comes over to her and grins menacingly.
Hillary: “I don’t understand. Yesterday I was here and there was a golf course and club and we ate lobster and caviar and danced and had a great time. Now all there is a wasteland full of garbage and my friends look miserable!”
The Devil: “Yesterday we were campaigning. Today you voted for us!”
