Trump just announced his budget proposal—and it looks like The Donald has some amazing tricks up his sleeve.
As promised the plan will reduce government spending significantly. The ultimate goal is to lower the national debt and reduce the tax burden on American citizens.
Already critics are debating the plan. Democrats are strongly opposed to anything that reduces government influence. Yet even some republicans are critical; remember these are insider politicians who have thrived thanks to big spending plans.
But what is Trump’s plan? Here are a few key elements of the proposal, and the two major groups it will impact significantly.
From Zero Hedge:
The budget will slash $1.7 trillion in spending on entitlement programs, according to Bloomberg.
Trump’s budget will include a massive nearly $200 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, the modern version of food stamps, over the next 10 years – what amounts to a 25% reduction, according to The Washington Post.
The food stamp cuts are part of a broader $274 billion welfare-reform effort, according to a report by The Associated Press.
The budget calls for about $800 billion in cuts to Medicaid for fiscal year 2018, WaPo reported.
The budget also calls for $2.6 billion in border security spending, $1.6 billion of which will be earmarked for Trump’s proposed wall along the U.S.’s southern border.
The budget is also expected to propose major domestic discretionary spending cuts – an earlier version of the budget called for $54 billion in such cuts next year alone.
Our nation’s in a critical situation. After eight years of liberal policies, our spending is out of control. Freeloaders on food stamps and medical welfare are going to have to tighten the belt and get it together in this working man’s economy.
Trump’s strict yet sensible plan will rein all that spending in and fix many holes in our current system.
While some might criticize the slashing of entitlement programs, that is a good thing. As jobs return to America, fewer citizens will need to depend on the government’s teat.
A good paying job is better than handouts. Share this story if you agree!
Slashing these programs will create more incentive for Americans to go out there and work for their bread.
Early reports claim that the plan will hurt long-standing programs, but Trump has vowed not to cut Medicare and Social Security retirement.
So what do you think of Trump’s budget plan? Is he address your concerns and needs? Be sure to let us know in the comments below.
We will continue to report on the budget as updates come through.
Source: Zero Hedge
For a fun bonus thought on these cuts, here are some great thoughts from the “Doctor of Common Sense”:
