Former U.S. president Bill Clinton has exposed the true nature of his character during the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton in South Carolina and has shown how little he cares for the people who have served and still serve in the American Military.
VIA Tell Me Now
A former Marine drill sergeant asked Clinton about the VA’s serious issues with providing veterans medical care. The former president seemed interested in what the man had to say.

But, Clinton’s hostility came out when the veteran asked about Benghazi. He tried to bully the veteran into shutting up. Hillary’s poor leadership helped cause the deaths of four Americans. They need to keep average voters from hearing this.
Bill Clinton yelled at the Marine, “Shut up and listen!” What a disgusting way to speak to someone who served our country!
Disgustingly, the crowd of Democrats began booing the Marine. They booed a veteran who served our country who is asking about four Americans who were murdered overseas! They don’t care about our military!
“I’m not your Commander In Chief anymore, but if I were I’d tell you to be polite and sit down,” Clinton said. The Marine replied, “I wouldn’t listen! I would just raise my voice!”
The veteran was removed from the event by security. Someone who actually served our country was silenced and physically removed for Hillary Clinton’s benefit. He continued speaking as he was being escorted out.
Bill Clinton showed how desperate they are to cover up the blood on Hillary’s hands. He told the crowd, “His mind has been poisoned by lies, and he won’t listen.”
Unbelievable. They don’t even try to cover up their attempt to silence people on Benghazi. Anyone who speaks the truth is called a liar. And the media won’t challenge the Clinton’s on it.
Just bear in mind the way this Marine was treated by Bill Clinton the next time the Clinton’s take a photo with veterans or anyone who has served in the military, for that matter.
Watch the video below and tell us what do you think about this whole situation in the comment section.
