You’d think that, after somebody quit working for the government, the government would cut ties with them, right? Not the deep state.
Months after her election loss, and at the end of her political career, Hillary Clinton and her staff still have security clearance. She’s using this clearance to leak damaging information, and outright lies. Her goal is to undermine President Trump, and she still hopes to get him impeached. (via Breitbart)
This is even worse than it sounds. Hillary Clinton is under investigation, and has a horrible, horrible track record with classified material. Who in their right mind wouldn’t strip her of her clearance?
I suppose Clinton still has some loyal minions at the State Department who are too implicated in her crimes to refuse her access to the department.
When asked, the State Department said it isn’t allowed to mention whether staff, or former staff, have security clearance. But Senator Chuck Grassley (R, IA) is keeping us as informed as he can.
He’s the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and confirmed that the investigation into Clinton’s mishandling of classified information has been re-opened.
Clinton’s spokesperson, Nick Merrill, has arrogantly attested to the opposite, saying, “Nothing’s been more thoroughly dissected. It’s over. Case closed. Literally.”
Right. Clinton, and the rest of us, can insist the case is over when she’s rotting in jail. No one will believe a thing she says about it from a cell.
It’s a wonder that anyone believes anything Clinton’s aides say, either. I suppose they frequently disguise their identities, hiding behind the media’s famous “anonymous source” moniker.
You know someone is lying when they don’t want you to know who they are. I think, deep down, they know that openly putting their necks out for Clinton is going to land them in a jail cell, or on the list of mysterious deaths.
The only thing more volatile than Hillary Clinton is a bitter Hillary Clinton. The sooner we lock her up, the less damage she, and her aides, can do.
What do you think about this comment below.
