According to thetruthdivision:
JUST IN: California Governor VIOLATES Constitution… “Impeachable Offense”.
In Article 10, Section 1 of the United States Constitution, it’s very clear about what is prohibited of states:
“No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation.”
And that is exactly what California Governor Jerry Brown did in his alliance with China, against Congress and the President of the United States — in other words, it’s an impeachable offense.
Keep Article 10, Section 1 in mind as you read The Hill’s report:
“California Gov. Jerry Brown signed an agreement to work with China to lower greenhouse gas emissions Tuesday, just days after President Trump pulled the United States out of an international climate change agreement.
“The agreement aims to expand cooperation between China and California on renewable energy, zero-emission vehicles and low-carbon urban development, Brown’s office said. It will establish a joint working group of Chinese and Californian officials to come up with ways to work together, and to invest in programs that would cut carbon emissions.
“Brown signed the pact with Wan Gang, China’s minister of science and technology, before meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping.
“’California is the leading economic state in America and we are also the pioneering state on clean technology, cap and trade, electric vehicles and batteries, but we can’t do it alone,’ Brown said Tuesday. ‘We need a very close partnership with China, with your businesses, with your provinces, with youruniversities.’
“Brown is in the middle of a weeklong trip to China, where he has signed similar agreements with leaders from Sichuan and Jiangsu provinces. Brown will headline the Under2 Clean Energy Forum on Wednesday in Beijing, a gathering of 170 cities, states and nations working to keep the global average temperature increase under two degrees Celsius.”
What do you think about this?
Share this post and leave your comment below.
Like our page on facebook.
Note: We at uspostman cannot make any warranties about the completeness, reliability and accuracy of this information.
Source: thetruthdivision
